>> Some 20 years ago, I received
a letter from a woman named
Lydia.
And in her letter,
Lydia was describing
how consuming a blue green
algae for about a year,
it eliminated all
of her third degree
burn scars that she had
had on our face, chest,
and harm for about 50 years.
So the understanding of
what this blue green algae
was doing in the
body is really what
led me to stem cell research.
So we'll talk about stem cells.
When most people think about
stem cells, it's a treatment.
You go somewhere to get
stem cells for a disease
or for longevity.
And these stem cells oftentimes
come from the bone marrow,
from the blood, from fat tissue.
In other words, they're
already in your body.
They're not better because we
take them out and put them back
in.
So to me, the question
20 years ago in my mind
was if stem cells have such
immense regenerative properties,
what are they doing in the body?
And is there a way of tapping
into a regenerative potential
of our own stem cells?
But before I answer
that question,
I think it's important to
establish the crucial importance
of stem cells in human
health by positioning them
at the two extremes of what
they represent for human health.
On one hand, their
absolutely incredible
regenerative potential.
And on the other
end, the extreme
limitation that they
impose on human health.
So let's start
with the first one.
The incredible
potential of stem cells.
Here's a study done by
the group of Doris Taylor.
She took the heart of a mouse.
And then in the cardiac
tissue, the circulated
digestive enzymes that
completely digested the heart
muscle.
So 12 hours later,
there's nothing left.
The only thing left is the
soft skeleton of the heart.
The connective
tissue of that heart.
And on that connective tissue
that still contains the trace
that it was the heart, they put
the stem cells from that mouse.
And within about a week,
they had a beating heart
in a test tube.
That is the power
of your stem cells
sitting in your bone
marrow right now.
You'll never be without a
heart or a heart to rebuild.
But you may be with a damaged
heart, damaged liver, damaged
pancreas.
So if stem cells can repair
a heart, an organ that is not
known to repair
easily, just imagine
what they can do for the rest.
And at the other
end of the spectrum,
you have the reality
that we have evolved
over tens of thousands
of years with a life
expectancy of 30 years of age.
Longevity has never been
selected in our evolution.
Our power to heal was not
needed beyond 30 years of age.
So today we're born with red
marrow that makes stem cells.
And as we age, that red marrow
converts into fatty marrow
that does not make stem cells.
By age 30, we've lost about
90% of our red marrow.
And that is totally
reflected by a decline
in 90% in the number of
stem cells in circulation.
Stem cells are
your repair system.
Any time you have a problem,
an injury, the affected area
will trigger the
release of compounds
that will go to the
bone marrow that
will trigger the release of
stem cells from the bone marrow.
As stem cells circulate
everywhere in the body,
the damaged area will
release other compounds
that will attract stem
cells to that area.
Stem cells will
migrate into tissue,
multiply, and become
cells of that tissue.
It is your repair system
since the day you are born.
Remember when you are a kid, the
injuries that you may have had.
Actually, you probably
don't remember them,
because they healed super
quick and they're gone.
You have the same
injury today, they
don't repair as quickly
as they used to.
And sometimes they linger
for quite some time.
It's because you don't have as
many stem cells as you used to.
They are your repair system.
More stem cells in circulation
means more stem cells
to participate in this
process of tissue repair.
Two people with the
same broken bone.
The one that heals the
fastest and the best
just happens to have more
stem cells in circulation.
So if that is true,
scientists ask the question,
if we have a means of putting
more stem cells in circulation,
could we change the course
of disease development?
And these studies were done.
If you increase the number
of stem cells in circulation,
many studies have shown you
can either improve or sometimes
even reverse heart
disease, Parkinson's,
Alzheimer's,
atherosclerosis, diabetes,
problems touching so
many different aspects
of human health.
But I think that the
greatest discovery
in the field of stem
cell research for you,
because it touches
every single one of you
is that yes, stem cells are
the repair system of the body.
But they are also the
maintenance system of the body.
When you are 60
years old, you don't
have a 60-year-old liver,
60-year-old pancreas
or 60-year-old heart.
Everything is constantly
going through a process
of tissue turnover.
You have a new liver
every two, three years.
New skin every month.
Half of a new heart
every 25 years.
Turnover means you
lose cells every day
and you need to
replace them in order
to maintain organ function.
That's the role of
your stem cells.
By age 30, you've
lost 90% of them.
Somewhere in your 30s, you
discover you're not superman,
you're no longer Wonder Woman.
From that day, you don't
have enough stem cells
to replace what is lost.
From that day on, you start
to accumulate a deficit that
will result years down
the road into some sort
of age-related diseases.
So this understanding of
the stem cell development
of disease--
stem cell part of
disease formation
is something I
published 10 years ago.
And in that paper,
I was suggesting
there is one way to
test if this is true.
Let's count the
number of stem cells
in people who have developed all
kinds of age-related disease.
And let's compare that to
healthy people of the same age.
And today many of these
studies have been done.
If you count the
number of stem cells
in people who have
developed heart
disease, cardiovascular
disease, diabetes, lupus,
erectile dysfunction,
high blood pressure,
Parkinson's, Alzheimer's,
and the list keeps growing,
these people all
have 50% or less
than the number of
stem cells that you
find in healthy people
of the same age.
So the conclusion here is
more stem cells in circulation
means better ability to
repair and better ability
to keep the health that you have
today for the decades to come.
So how can you put more
stem cells in circulation?
Fasting more than
three days we'll
put more stem cells
in circulation,
or intense physical activity,
like running a marathon.
You cannot fast all the time and
you cannot run a marathon every
day.
So how can you put more
stem cells in circulation?
And that's really my work
for the past 20 years.
So the blue green
algae that Lydia
had taken that removed
all of her scars,
I also had other
stories from people
who reported repair of heart
disease, cardiovascular disease,
diabetes, the brain, the lung.
So many different
aspects of human health
we had no understanding
of how it was working.
So we basically hypothesized.
So we are in the early
days of stem cell research.
We hypothesized,
what if that plant
was working as a
stem cell mobilizer,
putting more stem
cells in circulation?
So we acquired the equipment
to count stem cells.
And we started to
test this plant.
And very soon we
discovered that indeed this
is how this plant is working.
It is putting more stem cells in
circulation about an hour or two
after consumption.
So after documenting that
this plant was having
an effect on stem
cells, knowing that we
have evolved in symbiosis
with the environment,
there has to be other plants
having an effect on stem cells.
So how do we find them?
So we looked at plants that had
been associated historically
to a broad variety
of health benefits
and we tested all these plants.
And as we engage into
this whole process,
it led me to go to remote
areas of the world,
places that don't
necessarily have access
to the general marketplace,
if you want, of the world.
Like what are they using
on the Tibetan Plateau?
There, for many
kinds of problems.
So you have sea
buckthorn berry utilized
in traditional Chinese medicine.
Tibetan medicine,
Mongolian medicine
used for heart disease,
cardiovascular disease, lung
disease, diabetes, and to
help people repair from bone
fractures and burn to the skin.
You look at the spread.
It's telling me we probably
have an effect on stem cells.
So we tested an extract
from seabuckthorn berry
and we documented
that it significantly
increased the number of stem
cells in circulation, something
like 40% within about two to
three hours of consumption.
Then we went to--
I worked with scientists who
went to Papua New Guinea, South
America, Madagascar.
And in Madagascar,
they have a product
that is made for centuries.
It's called Vahona.
They have in Madagascar about
60 something species of aloe.
But there's only one that they
use to make this product Vahona,
and it's aloe macroclada.
It's been used for all kinds of
disease and to help older folks
work in the field
in their '80s, '90s.
So we developed an extract from
aloe macroclada, we tested it.
And so far, it's the
plant that is giving us
the greatest response in terms
of an increase of stem cells--
number of stem cells
in circulation,
up to close to 100% increase.
That means doubling the number
of stem cells in circulation.
You take a dose of
that product and you've
put about 10 million additional
stem cells in your blood
circulation.
Sit down with that
number and what it
means when you do this for
longer periods of time.
It really boosts the
body's ability to repair.
So the message here
is to understand
that more stem
cells in circulation
means that your body
can repair better.
Always keep in mind.
Let that sink in.
Your own stem cells
can rebuild a heart.
You will never be
without a heart.
But your stem cells can do
a lot of things that would
equate to that kind of power.
So more stem cells
in circulation
means you can repair better.
Keep in mind this is
your repair system.
What do you do when
you have a cold?
You support your immune system.
What do you do when you
have something in your body
that is not working properly?
You tap into your repair system.
It's just that
this is a novelty.
The last system was
documented in the early 1900s.
A century later, we discover
we have a new system that we
did not even know we had.
It's your repair system.
You want to repair?
Support your repair system
by putting more stem cells
in circulation.
If you have more stem
cells in circulation today,
you can repair better with
the problem that you have,
but you can keep the health that
you have today for the decades
to come.
There you go.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]